---
title: ... Vim?
slug: vim
publishedAt: 2007-03-24T20:00:00-07:00
tags: [Programming, VIM]
summary: |
  Here's a little info about how/why I got into vim...
---
Here's a little info about how/why I got into vim.

I've been a professional programmer since 1998. I've gone through a number of
text editors, most of which I've felt pretty meh about.  For a long time, I
used an editor called <a href="http://glimmer.sf.net">Glimmer</a>, simply
because it supported multiple languages (and by supported, I mean it had syntax
highlighting for them) and it had tabs.  This is the basis of what I
like in an editor. I stopped using Glimmer, because the author stopped putting
out releases. Not necessarily that it wasn't a good editor.

I never really liked any IDE's, because even if they did support multiple
languages, it was in a limited or style changing fashion.

When I started writing JBother in 2003, I switched to jEdit.  I love this
editor. It was simple and everything I needed. I started using plugins like
the ProjectManager (which allowed you to manage different projects in an easy
and intuitive way) and JavaStyle (which would format your Java code to whatever
standards you specified). jEdit's power is in it's plugins.  I would guess
that it has somewhere aound 100 of them (I'm merely guessing here), from code
formatting to CVS integration, whitespace management, FTP support, and more.
A complete list can be found <a href='http://plugins.jedit.org/'>here</a>.
jEdit at it's base is a very very simple editor, and most people are put off by
this. Most applications don't leave most of their power to plugins, although, I
think it's the way to go :)


At this point, I had been using vim to edit config files on the server and
such, and knew the very basics of navigation and searching.  I had been very
aware that it <i>could</i> be a very powerful text editor for programmers, but
I was put off by the fact that there wasn't any easy way to manage multiple
files - to me, this was essential.  I did some googling early on, and found the
<a href='http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=159'>minibufexpl</a>
plugin which allowed for so called "tabs" in your vim window, but it was ugly
and didn't work how you expected it to sometimes.


About the same time I started <a href='http://www.exaile.org'>Exaile</a> (March
2006), I discovered <a
href='http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=69'>project.vim</a>.  An
example of this script/plugin can be
seen <a href='http://binary.twi.gs/vim.png'>here, on the left</a>.  This was
what I was looking for.  It allowed you to manage all the files in your
project, quickly and easily.  You can add files in directories manually by
simply typing them in, or you can have the plugin do it automatically based on
a filter.  Once you have them in there, you can just hit enter on a file to
open it in the window on the right, type \S to split the window on the right
and open the file in the bottom, or you can even just double click on a file to
open it.   Beyond what I use it for, you can specify a vim script that will
execute when you open a file, and one to execute when you close a file.
Absolute awesomeness right here.

That same day I vowed to learn vim, and uninstalled jEdit.  It has been one of
the most productive things I've done since I started programming.  In about 2
weeks, I was editing more efficiently and learning quickly.

Vim.  If you're having second thoughts because of the learning curve, just stop
it.  You will thank yourself later.


<div class='vimtip'>
  <h3>
    <b>vim tip:</b> <i>Counts</i>
  </h3>

  <p>
    With every command given in command mode, you can specify the number of
    times you want it to be done.  For example, the letter <code>k</code> moves the
    cursor up one line, but if you type <code>5k</code>, it moves the cursor up 5
    lines.  I'm fairly sure this works with every command in vim.
  </p>
</div>

<div class="restored-from-archive">
  <h3>Restored from VimTips archive</h3>
  <p>
  This article was restored from the VimTips archive. There's probably
  missing images and broken links (and even some flash references), but it
  was still important to me to bring them back.
  </p>
</div>
