---
title: Sony Reader (PRS-700) Review
publishedAt: 2009-06-04T23:31:04-07:00
tags: [Random, Gadgets]
summary: |
  So, work got me a <a
  href='http://www.sonystyle.com/webapp/wcs/stores/servlet/ProductDisplay?catalogId=10551&storeId=10151&langId=-1&productId=8198552921665562069'>Sony
  PRS-700</a> for being awesome, which is awesome, so here are my thoughts so
  far.
---
So, work got me a <a
href='http://www.sonystyle.com/webapp/wcs/stores/servlet/ProductDisplay?catalogId=10551&storeId=10151&langId=-1&productId=8198552921665562069'>Sony
PRS-700</a> for being awesome, which is awesome, so here are my thoughts so
far.

eBook readers are pretty cool.  It brings back a lot of nostalgia - when I was
20 the company I was working for bought me a Palm Pilot, and the only things I
really used it for was as a phone book and to read ebooks.  I took it with me
when I traveled, read the entire "Ender's Series" on it, as well as
"Dreamcatcher" by Stephen King before my cat tipped a glass of water over on
it.  Stupid cat.  Anyway, it reminds me of those times.

You might ask: why not just carry a book around?  Good question.  The
advantages over a regular book, as I see them, are the ability to read in the
dark, and the ability to make a bookmark that won't fall out because of
gravity.  That's about it.  They are a little easier to hold, and to change
pages as well, but these are minor.  For me, the fact that it has enough space
to hold hundreds of books is nice, but it's not really an advantage.  I don't
usually read more than one book at a time, so I'd be fine if it just held one
or two... but not everyone uses them just to read novels.

The PRS-700 has several advantages over my old Palm Pilot:

The battery lasts forever.  I haven't yet been able to drain the battery
entirely, but it has already lasted longer than my Palm did.  It's supposed to
last for 10,000 page turns.  That's a lot.

E-Paper.  The idea is a screen that is higher contrast than you'd get on a
regular LCD screen, and something that you'll be able to read in a high light
situation (for example, in the sunlight).  For the most part, it does these
things, however, you can tell the technology is in it's early years because the
refresh rate is really low and the contrast could be a lot better.

The PRS-700 comes with a light (which is something that the competition doesn't
have yet), a touchscreen (which is cool, but I don't think it's really
necessary), and a groovy carrying case.

The biggest downside is this:  I have a paperback copy of "Snow Crash" (thanks
Courtney!), and it's next on my list, so I decided to get on Sony's Ebook store
and download it for the Reader.  The ebook version costs $10.50!!! More than
the paperback!  I'm thinking that this is a little outrageous, so I check out
other places like fictionwise.  I find out that $10.50 is actually a discount
from the cost of $15.00 that most places are charging.  Ah well, there are
other ways to get ebooks.

<div class="restored-from-archive">
  <h3>Restored from VimTips archive</h3>
  <p>
  This article was restored from the VimTips archive. There's probably
  missing images and broken links (and even some flash references), but it
  was still important to me to bring them back.
  </p>
</div>
