---
title: Lute Society of America Seminar 2012
publishedAt: 2012-07-18T19:17:02-07:00
tags: [Music]
summary: |
  This year, I went to the Lute Society of America Seminar at Case Western
  Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio. It was a lot of fun, and I'm going to
  share some of my experience here.
---
This year, I went to the Lute Society of America Seminar at Case Western
Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio. It was a lot of fun, and I'm going to
share some of my experience here.

Getting there with a lute was quite an adventure. Lutes are terribly delicate
instruments, even the larger ones weigh no more than a few pounds. Trusting the
airline not to body slam a very expensive belonging like this pushes your
limits. While my lute made it unharmed, it's case is marred all over now.

It was set up like a lot of the computer conferences that I've been to, UTOSC,
Brainshare, etc, in that there are classes that you can choose to go through,
you're surrounded by a bunch of people with a common interest, there's plenty
of nerds about and only a few women, and you get to meet people at the top of
food chain in the subject. The differences, though, were that at this
"conference", I really had no idea about most of what they were talking about,
it was a week long, and there were amazing concerts every night.

Every single day was exhausting. I would get up every morning at 6:30am (which
is four hours earlier than I get up at home, due to the time change and general
laziness) in order to be ready for breakfast at 7. Classes would start at 9am,
go to 11:30, at which point you were on your own for lunch. Every other day
there was an afternoon concert at 1pm. Classes resumed at 2:15 and ended at
5:30, dinner was served at 6pm, and then the night concert went from 7:30 to
9:30\. After that there was socializing and practicing until you went to bed,
and then you'd do it all over again in the morning.

Because I am new to the lute, and there weren't many beginner classes, I
usually went to whatever master class was going on during a specific hour. In a
master class, one or two people volunteer to play a piece for the lecturer (who
is an expert on the instrument at hand), and then they receive instruction on
how they can do better. I found these classes to be very informative on
technique, playing with feeling, etc. Also, it was very good just to see the
masters at work. Even the very best attendee's skills paled in comparison.

The concerts were absolutely amazing. The audience, all being lute lovers
themselves, were entirely captivated... not a cough or sneeze could be heard.
Every single one I'd just sit there in awe with goosebumps up and down my arms.

One thing I learned by meeting Paul O'dette, Robert Barto, Nigel North, Eduardo
Eguez, is that what I thought was the entire corpus of knowledge before I went,
was really just scratching the surface of what there is to know. Not only are
these people fantastic musicians, but they are all historians when it comes to
early music. They know which composer was where when he wrote what piece, and
why. It was quite overwhelming at times, but always very interesting.

<div class="restored-from-archive">
  <h3>Restored from VimTips archive</h3>
  <p>
  This article was restored from the VimTips archive. There's probably
  missing images and broken links (and even some flash references), but it
  was still important to me to bring them back.
  </p>
</div>
