---
title: New Blog!
slug: new-blog
publishedAt: 2024-01-02T17:01:13-07:00
tags: [Programming]
summary: |
  I've been wanting to revive my blog for a while now, I've had a desire to write
  some things about NeoVim in particular. Of course, I decided to write it myself
  instead of using something like Medium. For me, it's an opportunity to learn
  something new, in this case, several new things.
---
I've been wanting to revive my blog for a while now, I've had a desire to write
some things about NeoVim in particular. Of course, I decided to write it myself
instead of using something like Medium. For me, it's an opportunity to learn
something new, in this case, several new things.

The stack I chose is:

1. [Go](https://go.dev/) - The fact that I chose Go is a bit odd, especially
   since I thought I didn't like it (I tried it for a hackathon once and I
   didn't "get" it at the time). I figured I was probably wrong, several
   developers I know and respect were loving it. Also projects like
   [Charm](https://charm.sh) looked really ingriquing. It has a good track
   record for a backend.
   I'm happy to report that I was indeed wrong. Go is pretty cool!
2. [Templ](https://templ.guide/) - Another strange choice; it looks like JSX
   and that's another technology I shied away from, I just didn't like the way
   it looked. Again, willing to admit I'm wrong. Templ just looked neat and I
   thought it would probably work well with the third technology I chose (it
   does).
3. [HTMX](https://htmx.org) - It's all the rage isn't it? This is the one I was
   most excited to try. For a primarily backend developer like me, it's a dream
   come true. Now I don't have to write my types in Go, use those types to
   serialize to JSON, fetch via JS, and deserialize into another type written
   there. I can use the same backend model and HTML can be the View.
4. [Tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com/) - Anything to make CSS less annoying.

Like I said, I've wanted to bring back my blog for a while. I've considered a
bunch of technologies like Svelte, Vue, NestJS, etc, but one idea that I wanted
was to be able to write the articles in Markdown and have them convert
automatically to HTML. This way I can store the articles directly in the git
repository and edit them with the GitHub markdown editor. This also backs my
articles up and keeps revisions of them automatically.

I considered having it read the articles from the filesystem at boot, and then
populating a database (I still might do this eventually), but then I
thought: what's so bad about just reading them into memory and serving them
from there? I could still keep the comments in a database if I add that feature
later. It's super fast (I'm getting ~40k req/s with 100 concurrent users using
Cassowary). But, what if I have a lot of articles in there? The server has to
load them up, convert all the markdown to HTML, and then just hold them in memory.

I did some experiments by creating a bunch of Lorem Ipsum markdown articles and
seeing how Go (and my code) handled processing them.

I started with 10,000 6KB articles, and the app handled it just fine. I tried
pushing it to 20,000 and then 30,000 articles.

At 30,000 articles (which would give me enough leeway to write 2 articles every
single day for the next 80 years), the app took about 9 seconds to read every
article from the filesystem, convert the markdown to html, and store them in
memory. The process took about 890MB, which is a lot, to be sure, but I am ok
with it because the memory will remain fairly constant, and lookups will be
very fast (and, let's be honest, I'm not writing 30,000 articles, it took me
over 5 years to write 90).
